# Exploring Asian students' resilience
## Background
Resilience can be defined as “good outcomes in spite of serious threats to adaptation or development”. The purpose of our study was to conduct linear regression, decision treer, and random forest analyses based on data from PISA 2018 in an Asian context to explore the relationship between multiple independent variables (self, family and social-environmental characteristics) and student resilience. In 2018, nearly 80 countries participated in the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), but here we only focus on seven Asian countries: China, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam, Korea and Japan. PISA assesses 15-year-old students’ proficiency in reading, mathematics, and science and collects data on a large number of contextual factors through questionnaires administered to students, teachers, and school leaders. Our model analysis revealed that students' perceptions of school belonging, subjective well-being, gender, economic, social and cultural status, family wealth, internet access at home, and parental moral support were statistically significant predictors of resilience.
## Dataset
data6.csv contains data of all seven Asian countries. All data have been standardized, and missing data or invalid data were replaced using KNN.
## Conclusion
The aim of this study was to provide evidence for the complex interactions between resilience and students by applying three methods of linear regression, random forest and decision tree. We conclude that student’s sense of belonging to school and subjective well-being as self-factors, gender and index of economic, social and cultural status as social factors, family wealth, availability of internet at home and parents’ emotional support as family factors are important factors in students’ resilience. Among them, students’ sense of belonging to the school and subjective well-being as students’ self-factors are the most influential factors in resilience. By students grow up in our educational system, all of them will face adversity to one degree or another, whether socially or academically. This study can therefore provide insights for school social work practitioners to help improve students’ quality of life and educational experiences by providing them with the skills, resources, and enabling environments they need to thrive.
## Final report
Here is the final report of the analysis:
[MATH_509_Final_Project.pdf](https://github.com/LangqingZou/Math-509/blob/master/MATH_509_Final_Project.pdf)

